# Assignment 2: General Games - Part 1

```
Due date: 11:59pm, 16 September 2018, Weight: 33.33 % of total assignment work
```
## 1 Overview

Assignments should be done in groups consisting of 5-6 students. Each student has to
take major responsibility for one of the exercises and collaborate with the team members
on the remaining exercises. Each exercise needs 1-2 students taking major responsibility.
For Exercise 3, you should have 2-3 students taking major responsibility. The group has
to make sure that the workload is evenly distributed.

If you have problems finding a group use the forum to search for group partners or contact
the lecturer.It is compulsory that your group presents the preliminary results
during the assignment presentation session.

## 2 Assignment

This assignment deals with general game AI. You have to design different controllers for
the playing video games.

Detailed information about the competition is given athttp://www.gvgai.net/.

We will maintain a website which includes the best results of each group for the given two
problems. You have to send your own controller to Hirad (hirad.assimi@adelaide.edu.au)
on6 Septemberand13 September. You have to work on improving your controller
such that they perform well in competition with the other groups.

Assignment 2 requires that you test existing controllers and develop and improve your
own controller based on techniques covered during this course. We only consider the
Single Player Planning Trackin this assignment.

For Assignment 2 we only consider games from Training Set 1 (http://www.gvgai.
net/training_set.php?rg=1). For each exercise you have to evaluate the considered
controllers on the games:Aliens, Boulderdash, Butterflies, Chase.


### Exercise 1 Existing Controllers (30 points)

For this exercise, you have to run the existing controllers ”Random”, ”One Step Look-
Ahead”, and Genetic Algorithm” available at http://www.gvgai.net/sampleControllers.
php.

1. Run each of the three controllers 5 times on each of the 4 games and report for each
    game the average score and standard deviation.
2. Change the ”One Step Look-Ahead” Controller such that it looks more than 1 step
    ahead. Make sure that it does not exceed the time out and try to obtain a high
    performing controller.
3. Run your new steps ahead controller on each game 5 times and report the average
    score and standard deviation.

### Exercise 2 Genetic Algorithm Controller (20 points)

Consider the ”Genetic Algorithm” Controller

1. Design an evolutionary algorithm to optimize the parameter setting (GAMMA,
    SIMULATIONDEPTH, POPULATIONSIZE, RECPROB, MUT) for the ”Ge-
    netic Algorithm” Controller for a considered game. The fitness of the controller is
    given by the result it achieves on the considered game.
2. Give the best obtained parameter settings for each of the 4 games together with the
    results obtained for each game and compare it to the standard parameter setting
    tested in Exercise 1. Submit the best ”Genetic Algorithm” controller for each of
    the 4 games as part of your final submission.

### Exercise 3 Your own controller (50 points)

Design your own approach for a controller. You can use any techniques that we have
covered in the lectures of the course.

- Send your controller on 6 September and 13 September to hirad.assimi@adelaide.edu.au.
    You should have a decently performing controller by 6 September and improve it
    afterwards.
- Improve your controller during the time of this assignment such that you are com-
    peting well with the other groups. You should try to achieve the best possible result
    and outperform the results of the other groups.
- As part of your final submission, provide a 1-2 page description of your controller
    summarizing your main design ideas.


## 3 Marking

Marking will be done according to the following criteria:

- correct overall implementation 20%
- quality of the code (succinctness, object orientated, class structure) 15%
- design of your controller and justification of parameter setting - 25%
- quality of the results achieved on the different games - 40%

## 4 Procedure for handing in the assignment

Work should be handed in using Moodle student forum. The submission should include:

- list showing for each exercise the students taking major responsibility.
- for each student 4-5 sentences summarizing their contribution to this assignment
    work.
- all source files
- all configuration files
- a text file called results.txt containing results generated by the code
- description of results and details as outlined in the different exercises
- a README.txt file containing instructions to run the code, the names, student
    numbers, and email addresses of the group members
    
# GVG-AI

This is the framework for the General Video Game Competition 2014 - http://www.gvgai.net/

Google group - https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/the-general-video-game-competition

## FAQs / Troubleshooting

**1. How do I upload my controller? What files or folder structure do I need? 
First of all, your controller ```Agent.java``` and any auxiliary files you create should be in a single package folder with your username. For example, if your username is "abc", you should have a package folder named "abc" in the project. Your entire project layout should look something like this:

```groovy
- abc
	|- Agent.java
	|- MyAdditionalFile1.java
	|- MyAdditionalFile2.java
- controllers
- core
- ontology
- tools
```

Then, all you need to do is to zip and upload the "abc" folder. No other folders/files are necessary.


**2. I am getting the error `javac1.8 class not found` when running Eclipse and ANT on build.xml**
This is likely because the ANT version that is installed with your version of Eclipse is old. You can easily fix this problem by doing the following:

- Download the archive of the [latest version of ANT](http://ant.apache.org/bindownload.cgi) (Tested with  Ant 1.9.4)
- Extract the archive onto a local folder on your computer (e.g., /Users/gvgai/ant/apache-ant-1.9.4/)
- In Eclipse, go to Eclipse -> Preferences -> Ant -> Runtime
- Click on "Ant Home'' button on the right.
- Select the folder, which you extracted ANT into (e.g., /Users/gvgai/ant/apache-ant-1.9.4/)

